doc: update migration documentation to accomodate for migration from version 1 to 2 (#1505)
cognitedata/reveal: documentation/docs/migration-guide.md

1. [Migrating from @cognite/3d-viewer](#migrating-from-cognite3dviewer)

# Migrating from Reveal 1.x

There are some important differences between version 1 and version 2 of `@cognite/reveal` which might require changes in the build configuration and code. The most important changes are:

- The node styling/filtering API has been reworked and will require changes. See below for more information.
- [ThreeJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/three) and [@types/three](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/three) is included in the package, so it's no longer necessary to include this in the application you are using Reveal from if you are not using ThreeJS directly.

## Migrating to the new node styling API

Before reading this chapter it's recommended to read through [the introduction to the new styling and filtering API](examples/cad-styling).

In the 2.0 of release of Reveal, the filtering and styling API changed drastically - breaking existing
functionality. Migrating to version 2 will most likely require code changes, but these should often
be quite limited and lead to a simplification of the code base along with an increase in filtering- and
styling performance.

> In previous versions of Reveal, styling nodes was done by a set of functions for explicitly applying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions of Reveal, styling was done by a set of functions for explicitly applying
```

styling to a node identified by a tree index (and optionally all its children).
- Visibility - `hideNodeByTreeIndex()`, `showNodeByTreeIndex()`, `hideAllNodes()` and `showAllNodes()`
- Color override - `setNodeColorByTreeIndex()`, `setAllNodeColors()`, `resetNodeColorByTreeIndex()` and `resetAllNodeColors()`
- Ghost nodes - `ghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `unghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `ghostAllNodes()` and `unghostAllNodes()`
- Highlighting - `selectNodeByTreeIndex()`, `deselectNodeByTreeIndex()` and `deselectAllNodes()`

This allowed flexible styling of nodes, but required many individual calls to update each node, causing degraded

> performance. The new API instead requires a set of styles which nodes are assigned to. It's preferable not to have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance. The new API instead requires a set of styles which nodes are assigned to. It is preferable not to have
```

too many styles - both in terms of performance and to avoid a cluttered view for the end user.

The previous styling options maps quite directly to the new API. Visibility is controlled by `NodeApperance.visible`,
color override by `NodeApperance.color` and ghost mode by `NodeApperance.renderGhosted`. However, there is no
direct mapping between what was previously called 'selection' or 'highlighting', this is now a combination of
`NodeApperance.color`, `NodeApperance.renderInFront` and `NodeApperance.outlineColor`. This means that the new API

> introduces additional flexibility - e.g. can a object have an outline, but not be rendered in front of other objects. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduces additional flexibility - e.g. an object can have an outline, but not be rendered in front of other objects. For
```

> convinience, the new API comes with a sef of default styles available through [`DefaultNodeAppearance`](examples/cad-styling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
convenience, the new API comes with a set of default styles available through [`DefaultNodeAppearance`](examples/cad-styling).
```

A commonly used functionality is to apply a default style to all nodes and to style a few selected nodes with a different
style to make them stand out. Before, this could be achieved using a `ghostAllNodes`, `hideAllNodes` and `setAllNodeColors` to
apply the default styling, and a combination of the different per-node styling functions mentioned above to style the 

> nodes that are to stand out. In Reveal 2, this is replaced by `Cognite3DModel.setDefaultNodeAppearance` which is a style that will be applied to any node that is not styled by another styled set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nodes that should stand out. In Reveal 2, this is replaced by `Cognite3DModel.setDefaultNodeAppearance` which is a style that will be applied to any node that is not styled by another styled set.
```

> There are some important differences between version 1 and version 2 of `@cognite/reveal` which might require changes in the build configuration and code. The most important changes are:
> 
> - The node styling/filtering API has been reworked and will require changes. See below for more information.
> - [ThreeJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/three) and [@types/three](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/three) is included in the package, so it's no longer necessary to include this in the application you are using Reveal from if you are not using ThreeJS directly.
> 
> ## Migrating to the new node styling API
> 
> Before reading this chapter it's recommended to read through [the introduction to the new styling and filtering API](examples/cad-styling).
> 
> In the 2.0 of release of Reveal, the filtering and styling API changed drastically - breaking existing
> functionality. Migrating to version 2 will most likely require code changes, but these should often
> be quite limited and lead to a simplification of the code base along with an increase in filtering- and
> styling performance.
> 
> In previous versions of Reveal, styling nodes was done by a set of functions for explicitly applying
> styling to a node identified by a tree index (and optionally all its children).
> - Visibility - `hideNodeByTreeIndex()`, `showNodeByTreeIndex()`, `hideAllNodes()` and `showAllNodes()`
> - Color override - `setNodeColorByTreeIndex()`, `setAllNodeColors()`, `resetNodeColorByTreeIndex()` and `resetAllNodeColors()`
> - Ghost nodes - `ghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `unghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `ghostAllNodes()` and `unghostAllNodes()`
> - Highlighting - `selectNodeByTreeIndex()`, `deselectNodeByTreeIndex()` and `deselectAllNodes()`
> 
> This allowed flexible styling of nodes, but required many individual calls to update each node, causing degraded
> performance. The new API instead requires a set of styles which nodes are assigned to. It's preferable not to have
> too many styles - both in terms of performance and to avoid a cluttered view for the end user.
> 
> The previous styling options maps quite directly to the new API. Visibility is controlled by `NodeApperance.visible`,
> color override by `NodeApperance.color` and ghost mode by `NodeApperance.renderGhosted`. However, there is no
> direct mapping between what was previously called 'selection' or 'highlighting', this is now a combination of
> `NodeApperance.color`, `NodeApperance.renderInFront` and `NodeApperance.outlineColor`. This means that the new API
> introduces additional flexibility - e.g. can a object have an outline, but not be rendered in front of other objects. For
> convinience, the new API comes with a sef of default styles available through [`DefaultNodeAppearance`](examples/cad-styling).
> 
> A commonly used functionality is to apply a default style to all nodes and to style a few selected nodes with a different
> style to make them stand out. Before, this could be achieved using a `ghostAllNodes`, `hideAllNodes` and `setAllNodeColors` to
> apply the default styling, and a combination of the different per-node styling functions mentioned above to style the 
> nodes that are to stand out. In Reveal 2, this is replaced by `Cognite3DModel.setDefaultNodeAppearance` which is a style that will be applied to any node that is not styled by another styled set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are some important differences between version 1 and version 2 of `@cognite/reveal` which might require changes in the build configuration and code. The most important changes are:

- The node styling/filtering API has been reworked and will require changes. See below for more information.
- [ThreeJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/three) and [@types/three](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/three) are included in the package, so it's no longer necessary to include them in the application you are using Reveal from if you are not using ThreeJS directly.

## Migrating to the new node styling API

Before reading this chapter it's recommended to read through [the introduction to the new styling and filtering API](examples/cad-styling).

In the 2.0 release of Reveal, the filtering and styling API changed drastically - breaking existing
functionality. Migrating to version 2 will most likely require code changes, but these should often
be quite limited and lead to a simplification of your codebase along with an increase in filtering- and
styling performance.

In previous versions of Reveal, nodes styling was done by a set of functions for explicit applying of
styling to a node identified by a tree index (and optionally all its children).

- Visibility - `hideNodeByTreeIndex()`, `showNodeByTreeIndex()`, `hideAllNodes()` and `showAllNodes()`
- Color override - `setNodeColorByTreeIndex()`, `setAllNodeColors()`, `resetNodeColorByTreeIndex()` and `resetAllNodeColors()`
- Ghost nodes - `ghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `unghostNodeByTreeIndex()`, `ghostAllNodes()` and `unghostAllNodes()`
- Highlighting - `selectNodeByTreeIndex()`, `deselectNodeByTreeIndex()` and `deselectAllNodes()`

This allowed flexible styling of nodes but required many individual calls to update each node, causing degraded
performance. 
The new API instead requires a set of styles that are assigned to nodes. 
It's preferable not to have too many styles - both in terms of performance and to avoid a cluttered view for the end user.

The previous styling options maps quite directly to the new API. Visibility is controlled by `NodeApperance.visible`,
color override by `NodeApperance.color` and ghost mode by `NodeApperance.renderGhosted`. However, there is no
direct mapping between what was previously called 'selection' or 'highlighting', this is now a combination of
`NodeApperance.color`, `NodeApperance.renderInFront` and `NodeApperance.outlineColor`. This means that the new API
introduces additional flexibility - e.g. an object can have an outline, but not be rendered in front of other objects. For
convenience, the new API comes with a set of default styles available through [`DefaultNodeAppearance`](examples/cad-styling).

A commonly used functionality is to apply a default style to all nodes and to style a few selected nodes with a different
style to make them stand out. Before, this could be achieved using a `ghostAllNodes`, `hideAllNodes` and `setAllNodeColors` to
apply the default styling, and a combination of the different per-node styling functions mentioned above to style the 
nodes that are to stand out. In Reveal 2, this is replaced by `Cognite3DModel.setDefaultNodeAppearance` which is a style that will be applied to any node that is not styled by another styled set.
```

Diff looks ugly, sorry about that. See actual changes:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4989157/120343624-2a76b500-c2f9-11eb-9676-c734861705f5.png)

Tried to proofread here a bit. @larsmoa great work on the migration guide 💪

## Using ByTreeIndexNodeSet to migrate existing filtering logic

<DemoWrapper name="Cognite3DViewerDemo" />

In general, it is recommended to use the [specialized `NodeSet`-implementations](examples/cad-styling) for best performance. However,
it is possible to use `ByTreeIndexNodeSet` as a migration step. This allows the use of previously implemented logic for
populating the set based on some application specific logic.

> Lets say an application has some logic for only showing objects that are part of the 'EA'-function. In previous versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, consider an application that has some logic for only showing objects that are part of the 'EA'-function. In previous versions
```

    }
  });
```

Now, the same can be implemented using:

```js runnable
const visibleSet = new IndexSet();
const visibleNodeSet = new ByTreeIndexNodeSet(visibleSet);
model.setDefaultNodeAppearance(DefaultNodeAppearance.Hidden);
model.addStyledNodeSet(visibleNodeSet, DefaultNodeAppearance.Default);

// Populate set
sdk.revisions3D.list3DNodes(model.modelId, model.revisionId,
  {
    limit: 1000,
    properties: { PDMS: { Function: 'EA' } }
  })
  .autoPagingEach(node => {
    visibleSet.addRange(new NumericRange(node.treeIndex, node.subtreeSize));
  })
  .then(() => {
    // Note! We only trigger update to have effect on the rendered viewer after
    // _all_ nodes have been retrieved. A better approach might be to trigger
    // an update after each batch of nodes have been fetch from the SDK.
    // However, avoid calling updateSet() too often as it can take some time
    // to complete.
    visibleNodeSet.updateSet(visibleSet);
  });
```

Note that the styling is set up before any nodes actually are fetched and that the
set is populated asynchronously.

:::note
This example could easily have been migrated using `ByNodePropertyNodeSet`, but in

> other cases this might not be as straight forward as here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other cases this might not be as straight forward as shown.
```
